# Licensing and Deployment 

## Alea GPU Compilation Modes

The Alea GPU compiler can operate in two different modes
  
  - Just In Time (JIT) 
  - Ahead Of Time (AOT)

Depending on the requirements or the use case JIT or AOT is more suitable.

<table border="2" cellpadding="5" id="inTable">
<colgroup>
    <col span="1" style="width: 7%;">
    <col span="1" style="width: 40%;">
    <col span="1" style="width: 35%;">
    <col span="1" style="width: 18%;">
</colgroup>
<tr><th>Mode</th><th>Objective</th><th>Use Cases</th><th>Deployment Licensing</th></tr>
<tr>
	<td>JIT</td>
	<td>
		<ul>
		    <li>Dynamic compilation scheme at runtime</li>
		    <li>Maximum flexibility</li>
		    <li>Full cross platform and GPU architecture compatibility</li>
		</ul>
	</td>
	<td> 
		<ul>
		    <li>Dynamic GPU code generation</li>
		    <li>Data dependent auto-tuning</li>
		    <li>GPU scripting</li>
		    <li>Rapid prototyping</li>
		    <li>Generic programming</li>
		</ul>
	</td>
	<td> 
		Full developer license
	</td>	
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>AOT</td>
	<td>
		<ul>
		    <li>Fastest application load time</li>
		    <li>Complete code generation at design time</li>
		    <li>Remove compiler dependency for deployment</li>
		    <li>Selective platform and GPU architecture compatibility</li>
		    <li>Reduce licensing requirements</li>	
		    <li>Control application size</li>	
		</ul>
	</td>
	<td> 
		<ul>
		    <li>GPU application and library development</li>
		    <li>Mobile and embedded systems GPU applications</li>
		    <li>Compile time instantiation of generic algorithms</li>
		</ul>
	</td>
	<td> 
		Runtime license
	</td>	
</tr>
</table>

We suggest to use AOT compilation mode whenever possible. It simplifies deployment 
because the end user does not require a fully fledged developer license to compile the 
code on the fly. Whenever fully generic programming is required JIT compilation is
the appropriate choice. However, if the set of types is known at compile time, we can 
again use AOT compilation to generate all the required specializations. 


## Ahead of Time Compilation

In the quick start example the kernel is decorated with the attribute `AOTCompile`, which selects the AOT compilation mode.
In the default configuration the Alea compiler generates fully optimized GPU code for 
  
   - Compute architecture 2.0 
   - 32 and 64 bit platforms

For each configuration the generated code is embedded in the assembly as a binary resource. In the 
build output window the GPU code generation is reported:

	[lang=text]
    Fody (version 1.26.4.0) Executing
      Compiling GPU code for assembly 'Tutorial.Cs.exe'...
      Compile settings: Level="Optimized" SMs="sm20" Bits="32;64"
      Compile result: 5 resources, 0 errors, 0 warnings.
      Finished Fody 3107ms.	



## Just in Time Compilation

Switching to JIT compilation is as easy as to remove the `AOTCompile` attribute. 
