# Interoperability

## The Role of F#

Alea GPU has two distinct compiler front-ends: one is based on F# quotations while the other directly relies on IL. What this means is that whilst at some later point in the compilation process both F# and all other .NET languages will share some common intermediate representation, the syntax for calling the compiler is purposefully different.

In particular, F# uses F# quotations and all other languages will use .NET delegates to call the compiler.

Because F# quotations are conceptually a much higher-level programming model than IL, many syntactic improvements can be much more easily implemented on top of quotations. Therefore, internally, the compiler uses the F# quotations to implement different intrinsic functions like ``__unroll()`` and the likes.

As such, the F# quotations always are a part of the compilation process, even if you do not use F# to write your kernel, but use say C# instead.

## How to Offer Good Interoperability between Different Languages

An F# library that just uses kernels internally does not need to care about anything more than the usual F#-to-IL interoperability topics. Kernel writing on the other hand, involves sometimes very generic partial kernels, like a `scan`. This one is not a kernel yet, but rather it is a function that can be used within a kernel. Only if it is combined with the rest of the kernel it becomes a concrete implementation. Those cases are well-supported by Alea GPU. If it comes to writing our kernels, we really have three options: 

- *Quotations-only stack*: This is the case, where you might have a separate F# assembly implementing your kernels. You might still be calling said assembly from C#, but the kernels are fully written in F#.
- *IL-only stack*: This is the case, where you write your kernels fully using the IL front-end. That would be the default case for a solution purely written in C#.
- *Quotations and IL mixed stack*: This is the case, where you would write some kernels in the more powerful F# quotations manner and want to expose them to other IL languages like C#.

The first two cases have been explained in the different quick start samples and we shall not discuss them here further. Instead, here we show, how to make an F# kernel easily accessible by other IL languages.

### Make the Signatures IL-Friendly

Function signatures in F# work slightly different than in other .NET languages. These subtle differences are the most important points to consider in order to use F# from another .NET language. 
Let us consider the IL and F# versions of the following signature:

    [<ReflectedDefinition>] 
    member this.ExclusiveScan tempStorage scanOp identity input = ...

This function has the following type: 

    tempStorage:UnionStorage -> scanOp:('T -> 'T -> 'T) -> identity:'T -> input:'T -> 'T

First of all, the arguments are curried. Whilst in certain cases, F# will provide curried functions as normal functions for IL, sometime it provides a function signature like this:

	FSharpFunc<FSharpFunc<T, FSharpFunc<T, T>>, FSharpFunc<T, FSharpFunc<T, T>>>
		ExclusiveScan(UnionStorge tempStorage) {...}

So what we need to do are two things:

- *Use tupled arguments when dealing with IL interoperability*
- *Use delegates instead of function values*

After following these two simple rules, we can make an IL-friendly wrapper:

    [<ReflectedDefinition>] 
    member this.ILExclusiveScan(tempStorage, input, identity, scanOp:Func<_,_,_>) =
        let scanOp a b = scanOp.Invoke(a, b)
        this.ExclusiveScan tempStorage scanOp identity input

Note how we wrap the `scanOp` delegate into an inner function value `scanOp`. In particular, this wrapper just uses the F#-friendly version internally. So we now have two functions `ExclusiveScan` and `ILExclusiveScan` that are F# and IL friendly, respectively.

### Wrap the Functionality in an `ILGPUModule`

Assuming you have your kernel and dispatching logic ready in a module, you need to use an `ILGPUModule` instead of a normal `GPUModule`, even if you use F# for the implementation.

    type DeviceScanModule<'T>(target, scanOp:Expr<'T -> 'T -> 'T>) as this =
        inherit ILGPUModule(target)
        new(target, scanOp:Func<'T, 'T, 'T>) =
            new DeviceScanModule<'T>(target, <@ fun a b -> scanOp.Invoke(a, b) @>)
        ...

Note that we again have an IL-friendly overload of the constructor, dealing with delegates and F# function values.

If you followed those steps, you have a kernel, that is usable from within any IL language and that allows for reuse of your F# quotations kernel in other kernels written with IL languages.