# Comparing Different Techniques

Choosing the right implementation technique to write GPU algorithms depends on the complexity of the problem and the level of abstraction which is required. This section explains the available choices and the trade-offs of the different techniques:

## Making the Choice

The following rules should help to choose the right technique for the problem at hand: 

- Normal production code: _Use the method-based technique if you can, and the instance-based one if you must_. The light-weight object-oriented wrapper around GPUs that a GPU module is, fits nicely to the disposable character of the GPU resources and it makes you focus on the kernel plus it allows for multiple entry points. This makes for clean code and can be easily ahead-of-time compiled.
- GPU scripting: _Use the template-based technique_. Since you are working in F# and you are prototyping, having the full flexibility is handy. Also the template technique does not require new classes for each kernel, but rather allows just defining them as values inside a function. So it can be used for very terse expressing of kernels and entry points. In particular you can build up more complex expressions by means of quotation splicing.
- Library code: _Consider the template-based technique_. If you do heavy-weight meta-programming or you are in some way extending the compiler, the additional complexity of the template-based technique may be worthwhile as it allows for full control over how the GPU resources are handled, when compilation occurs, etc.. For instance, the whole ahead-of-time compilation process is implemented on top of the templates; the expressive power is very high.

## Method-based Technique

The method-based technique is the simplest way to write a kernel function in Alea.GPU. This technique has some limitations in so far, as it does not allow passing constructor arguments to the GPU module, because the method has to be static. Therefore, global resources like constant memory cannot be accessed and it is not possible to hard-code _flexible configuration_ parameters like block size or similar to avoid bounds checks. Furthermore it is not possible to pass functions as arguments to the constructor, so e.g. a generic map kernel cannot be expressed.

In spite of those limitations, a lot of kernels can be expressed using this simple technique. 

## Instance-based Technique

The instance-based technique increases the expressive power of the method-based technique by allowing to pass in _CUDA-compile-time_ arguments through the constructor. This, in particular, allows to express very advanced kernel that have parts of their implementation passed in, like the map kernel that does not yet know what function it will use to map over data. The implementation overhead is only slightly increased over the method-based technique but the flexibility is increased a lot.

## Workflow Technique

The workflow technique is the underlying technique for all others and it has the full expressive power of Alea GPU at the cost of substantially increased complexity. Unlike the other techniques that roughly correspond to _classes_ in the object-oriented sense, a workflow is more general. It corresponds to a _value_ and that value can be whatever, a simple number, a function, a class or an `Entry`.

Usually the workflow technique is only used in case of F# scripting because it fits nicely with F#'s concept of a _value_, if very heavy-weight meta programming is needed that cannot be expressed with the instance technique - like the inline generics of F# or if you are extending the compiler itself, e.g. you are writing your own GPUModule.