# Comparing Different GPU Coding Techniques

Choosing the right implementation technique to write GPU algorithms depends on the complexity of the problem and the level of abstraction which is required. This section explains the available choices and the trade-offs of the different techniques:

## Making the Choice

The following rules should help to choose the right technique for the problem at hand: 

- Normal production code: Use method-based GPU coding if you can, and the class instance-based one if you must. The light-weight object-oriented wrapper around GPUs that a GPU module is, fits nicely to the disposable character of the GPU resources and it makes you focus on the kernel plus it allows for multiple entry points. This makes for clean code and can be easily ahead-of-time compiled.
- GPU scripting: Use workflow-based GPU coding. Since you are working in F# and you are prototyping, having the full flexibility is handy. Also the workflow technique does not require new classes for each kernel, but rather allows just defining them as values inside a function. So it can be used for very terse expressing of kernels and entry points. In particular you can build up more complex expressions by means of quotation splicing.
- Library code: Consider workflow-based GPU coding. If you do heavy-weight meta-programming or you are in some way extending the compiler, the additional complexity of workflow-based GPU coding may be worthwhile as it allows for full control over how the GPU resources are handled, when compilation occurs, etc. For instance, the whole ahead-of-time compilation process is implemented on top of the templates; the expressive power is very high.

## Method-Based GPU Coding

Method-based GPU coding is the simplest way to write a kernel function in Alea GPU. This technique has some limitations in so far, as it does not allow passing constructor arguments to the GPU module, because the method has to be static. Therefore, global resources like constant memory cannot be accessed and it is not possible to hard-code flexible configuration parameters like block size or similar to avoid bounds checks. Furthermore it is not possible to pass functions as arguments to the constructor, so e.g. a generic map kernel cannot be expressed.

In spite of those limitations, a lot of kernels can be expressed using this simple technique. 

## Class Instance-Based GPU Coding

Class instance-based GPU coding increases the expressive power of the method-based technique. A new class is derived from GPUModule or ILGPUModule to manage all GPU resources. CUDA compile-time arguments can be supplied to the constructor. This allows for the creation of advanced kernels using generics. The implementation overhead is only slightly increased over the method-based technique but the flexibility is increased a lot.

## Workflow-Based GPU Coding

Workflow-based GPU coding is the underlying technique for all others and it has the full expressive power of Alea GPU at the cost of  increased complexity. Unlike the other techniques that roughly correspond to classes in the object-oriented sense, a workflow is more general. It corresponds to a value which can be anything: a simple number, a function, a class or an `Entry`.

Workflow-based technique is mainly used in the following scenarios:
  
  - GPU scripting with F# because it fits nicely with F#'s concept of a value
  - Heavy-weight meta programming that cannot be expressed with the instance technique, like the inline generics of F#
  - Extending the compiler, e.g. writing a specialize version of a GPUModule