Programmable Graphics Processing Units or GPUs have evolved into a highly parallel, multi-threaded,
many-core processors with tremendous computational power and a very high memory bandwidth.

Thanks to these advances, GPUs have revolutionized the world of high-performance computing and redefined 
numerical computing in many industries.

<table border="2" cellpadding="5">
<colgroup>
    <col span="1" style="width: 20%;">
    <col span="1" style="width: 80%;">
</colgroup>
<tr><th>Industry</th><th>Applications and Use Cases</th></tr>
<tr>
	<td>Oil & Gas</td>
	<td> 
		<li>Discovering new oil and gas reservoirs with seismic exploration</li>
	</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>Bioinformatics</td>
	<td> 
		<li>Molecular dynamics simulation</li>
		<li>DNA gene sequencing</li>
		<li>Protein docking</li>
	</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>Life Science</td>
	<td> 
		<li>Weather and ocean modelling</li>
		<li>Tsunami simulation</li>
	</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>Medicine</td>
	<td> 
		<li>Image processing</li>
		<li>Radiotherapy dose calculation</li>
	</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>Engineering</td>
	<td> 
		<li>Structural mechanics</li>
		<li>Computational fluid dynamics simulation with Navier-Stokes or Lattice Boltzmann models</li>
	</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>Defense</td>
	<td> 
		<li>Image and signal processing</li>
		<li>Video surveillance</li>
	</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>Finance</td>
	<td> 
		<li>Calculation of risk figures</li>
		<li>Pricing of financial derivatives</li>
	</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>Data Science</td>
	<td> 
		<li>Artificial intelligence</li>
		<li>Machine learning</li>
		<li>Big data analytics</li>
	</td>
</tr>
</table>

A relatively recent success story of GPUs is the training of deep architectures in Machine Learning,
which would not be possible without GPUs. 

GPUs offer multiple benefits: 

  - GPUs process heavy compute loads and vast amounts of data much faster than CPUs.
  - They improving user experience with smoother interaction, better graphics or augmented reality.
  - GPUs deliver performance with far less size, weight and power than CPUs.

These benefits are not the only reasons why the importance of GPUs will continue to grow: 

  - We see are more and more compute intensive applications.
  - The data volumes are continuosly growing.
  - The fast growing market of mobile devices and embedded systems is relying on GPUs with low power demand
    to improve graphics, accelerate computations and extend battery life time.
    
The last point is best illustrated with the new Nexus 9 tablet which uses NVIDIA's new Tegra K1 mobile GPU.  

On the software development side CUDA and OpenCL simplified general purpose computing on GPUs a lot.
Armed with these technologies, the developer does not need to think anymore about how to map the computing 
problem to the graphics context and to program the algorithms in a shader language. 

CUDA and OpenCL are not the only APIs to program GPUs. There are several alternative technologies:

  - Microsoft Direct Compute and C++ AMP on Windows
  - Google RenderScript on Android
  - Apple Metal on iOS

These technologies are not used as widespread as CUDA but underline the importance of GPU computing:
On every major platform at least one general purpose GPU programming technology is available.



