# GPU Computing on .NET with Alea GPU 

Alea GPU is a professional GPU development environment for .NET.

  - Supports all .NET languages, including C#, F# and VB
  - Improves developer productivity with first class tooling for coding, debugging and profiling, fully integrated in Visual Studio™
  - Reduces development time with pre-fabricated GPU algorithms and libraries
  - Increases agility with GPU scripting and a REPL in Visual Studio™ for rapid prototyping of GPU code

With Alea GPU the .NET framework can be used as a cross platform technology for the CPU and GPU code base.

  - Runs on Windows, Linux and Mac OS X
  - Single code base for multiple platforms - build once and run on any platform supporting either .NET or Mono
  - Simplified deployment because generated assemblies are binary compatible for all platforms

Alea GPU generates code which is as fast as native CUDA C/C++, with the benefit of being seamlessly integrated with .NET and Mono. 

It can be used to develop GPU accelerated applications at all levels of sophistication, from simple
GPU kernels up to complex GPU algorithms using textures, shared memory and other advanced GPU programming
techniques. 
  
This tutorial shows step by step how to use Alea GPU for GPU computing on .NET. 

The [source code](http://github.com/quantalea/AleaGPUTutorial) is on GitHub.

The [quick start](quick_start/index.html) section shows how to write simple 
GPU accelerated algorithms and explains the basic Alea GPU programming concepts. 

If you are new to GPU computing the [background](gpu_background/index.html) section contains helpful information. 
 
Important terms and concepts are introduced in the [terminology](terminologies/index.html) section.

## More Informations

You can find additional information about Alea GPU on the web:

  - [Source code](http://github.com/quantalea/AleaGPUTutorial) 
  - [Manual](http://quantalea.com/static/app/manual/index.html)
  - [Release notes](http://quantalea.com/releasenotes/)
  - [Blog](http://blog.quantalea.com)
  
## Next Steps

